As a child, I grew up in a family that not only strongly leaned on agriculture for income, but also delighted in the practice. My father is a subsistence farmer/**parents**/ who has practiced farming for well over two decades /**as far as i remember**/ and he is the most skilled farmer I know. It is through agriculture that my parents were able to look after me and my siblings and put us through school, so I could very easily say I appreciate agriculture mainly because my family owes it most of our well being. But that would not be entirely accurate.
Because the truth is that I don’t just feel an obligation to farming; I also truly love agriculture. It isn’t just an activity or occupation to me, farming has been the main activity in the fore ground of my family throughout the generations. My grand parents were farmers, my parents did the same, and I am well on my way to following in their footsteps although my approach is to use technology to make the entire process more efficient and effective. Even though I only recently graduated University, I have been practicing agriculture on my farm for a while now and so far I have structured it's production with technology as it's back bone. At the moment, for example, I finally brought to fruitation my plan of developing a system which keeps track of the overall running of the farm; some of it's most brilliant roles being that it not only archives sales and expenses, but is also able to inform you whether you are making profits or losses at a weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual time. /**I have great plans ticipating in not just growing crops such as mushrooms and vegetables such as kale/Sukuma wiki and , but also livestock. I started out with birds; chicken to be precise, a year ago and have recently moved on to rabbits**/ .
But farming isn’t my only passion, no, in fact my love for farming is rivaled only by my love for technology. Unlike farming though, I didn’t grow up with a lot of exposure to the world of Information technology and computers. As a matter of fact, I only first discovered my love for technology in senior one in high school, the first time I saw a computer. Fascinated, I found myself dissatisfied with the few hours allocated to computer practicals and decided to visit the computer labs every after classes in order to find my way in that “big black box” and learn more during my free time.
Unfortunately, because we didn’t have a computer back home, my progress was sluggish at best as I only had access to one while at school. My luck eventually changed during my senior six vacation when I got a chance to use a computer more frequently and this time what I got was a vivid and thrilling wake-up call. The desire to learn that was sparked during those early years was ignited anew and this time I honed even more skills, my fondest skill being “googling answers”. It was during this time that I discovered that the computer can get any information with ease.
When I later enrolled in University, I majored in Computer Science. My parents did not have enough money to take me to University and I was able to join only because my Aunt gave up on her dream to further her education and attain a Masters Degree in order to pay for my tuition. Through her sacrifice, I got an opportunity to major in a field that I both loved, and believed had a lot of promise.My journey henceforth has nurtured a passion within me for these two seemingly unrelated entities; agriculture and technology, and my dream is to bridge the gap between the them. I am already applying my programming skills on my farm and it has been proof of what rewards we stand to read if we combine the two. For example, I recently designed a system that tracks expenses, profits, losses, and revenue on our farm.
Agriculture remains the major source of livelihood in Uganda, but it has also been wrongly perceived in the past as a “dirty job” for the old people in rural communities. But when combined with technology, we will get more people participating in it, and consequently we will get high yields, quality products and ultimately even the Country’s exports will increase./**How I got to know abt CMU. Love tech+agric bt lately introduction of AI in the two e.g mobile apps to detect disease in crops. I'd like nothing more than to learn from the best. Geographically being CMU top of the best Univ of Comp. Science in the world, I've been lucky to have access to a world class institutuion near home. Dream to sit on same table with smart students from all over the world**/
WRITTEN BY

nabimanya lynn
Follow
